array_position initial commit (#11989)
crate/crate: docs/general/builtins/scalar-functions.rst

    SELECT 1 row in set (... sec)

.. _scalar-array_position:

``array_position(anycompatiblearray, anycompatible [, integer ] ) → integer``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``array_position`` function returns the subscript of the first
occurrence of the second argument in the ``array``, or ``NULL`` if it's not
present. If the third argument is given, the search begins at that subscript.

> The ``array`` must be one-dimensional. Comparisons are done using

Author: I think, it's working with multidimensional arrays too although somewhere in documentation I read that array(array(text)) is not supported so didn't add in documentation. I'll add it to doc.

> The ``array`` must be one-dimensional. Comparisons are done using

Reviewer: Yes right `array(array(text))` is not supported on various cases, e.g. our storage engine doesn't support that. But AFAIK these limitations aren't related to the `array_position` scalar, thus I wouldn't document it here.

> The ``array`` must be one-dimensional. Comparisons are done using

Author: Sure. Will skip that. Thank you for answering too many questions. :)

> ``IS NOT DISTINCT FROM`` semantics, so it is possible to search for ``NULL``.

Reviewer: CrateDB currently doesn't support the ``IS NOT DISTINCT FROM`` comparison statement. Thus we should phrase this differently to express than NULL values are supported.
Maybe something like:
"The function supports comparison of ``NULL`` values."

Author: Updated in documents about null support.

::

    cr> CREATE TABLE metrics(
            ts timestamp,
            values_sensor1 ARRAY(INTEGER),
            values_sensor2 ARRAY(INTEGER)

>         );

Reviewer: Looks like the `ts` column is not needed for the examples, so I suggest to remove (keep scope low). Wouldn't also one array column be enough for all examples?

Author: I have simplified the function documentation. Removed verbose details taking inspiration from other functions. Please take a look again.

    CREATE OK, 1 row affected  (... sec)

::

    cr> INSERT INTO metrics VALUES (NOW(), [1, 3, 7, 4], [9, 8, 0, 2]);
    INSERT OK, 1 row affected  (... sec)

::

    --Find out if a value is contained in an array

    cr> SELECT array_position(values_sensor1, 10) IS NULL AS is_null
        FROM metrics;
    +---------+
    | is_null |
    +---------+
    | TRUE    |
    +---------+

>     SELECT 1 row in set (... sec)

Reviewer: As commented here https://github.com/crate/crate/issues/11943#issuecomment-983549996, using `ANY` is much more efficient for existence checks of array elements. Thus we should either include a similar comment to explain that `ANY` is a more performant alternative, or we may just remove this example here.

Author: Added the ``TIP`` about the same.

::

>     --Find the position of an existing element.

Reviewer: Please move this out of the code block.

Author: Comment removed.

    SELECT 1 row in set (... sec)

.. _scalar-array_position:

``array_position(anycompatiblearray, anycompatible [, integer ] ) → integer``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``array_position`` function returns the subscript of the first
occurrence of the second argument in the ``array``, or ``NULL`` if it's not
present. If the third argument is given, the search begins at that subscript.
The third argument is ignored if it's null or invalid value out of ``array``
range. It is also possible to search for ``NULL`` values.

::

    cr> SELECT array_position([1,3,7,4], 7) as position;
    +----------+
    | position |
    +----------+
    |        3 |
    +----------+
    SELECT 1 row in set (... sec)

Begin the search from given subscript (optional).

::

    cr> SELECT array_position([1,3,7,4], 7, 2) as position;
    +----------+
    | position |
    +----------+
    |        3 |
    +----------+
    SELECT 1 row in set (... sec)

.. TIP::

>     Using the :ref:`ANY <sql_any_array_comparison>` operator to search the
>     existence of the ``array`` elements is much more efficient and
>     recommended over using the ``array_position`` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When searching for the existence of an ``array`` element, using the 
    :ref:`ANY <sql_any_array_comparison>` operator inside the ``WHERE``
    clause is much more efficient as it can utilize the index whereas  
    ``array_position`` won't even when used inside the ``WHERE`` clause.
```

Reviewer 2: Already addressed.
